charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter/README.md, before:

# prometheus-statsd-exporter

Prometheus Exporter for [Statsd](https://github.com/statsd/statsd) metrics.

This chart bootstraps a [Statsd Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.16+ with Beta APIs enabled
- Helm 3+

## Usage

The chart is distributed as an [OCI Artifact](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) as well as via a traditional [Helm Repository](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_repository/).

- OCI Artifact: `oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter`
- Helm Repository: `https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts` with chart `prometheus-statsd-exporter`

The installation instructions use the OCI registry. Refer to the [`helm repo`]([`helm repo`](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/)) command documentation for information on installing charts via the traditional repository.

### Install Chart

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter
```

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

### Uninstall Chart

```console
helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

### Upgrading Chart

```console
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

## Configuring

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
helm show values oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter
```

### Statsd Exporter Server

- Use early created ConfigMap with file `statsd.mappingConf` contained in data or specify mapping values in `statsd.mappingConfig`

Commit message:

[prometheus-statsd-exporter]: remove support for depreacted ingress api (#5835)
Signed-off-by: AvivGuiser <avivguiser@gmail.com>

charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter/README.md, after:

# prometheus-statsd-exporter

Prometheus Exporter for [Statsd](https://github.com/statsd/statsd) metrics.

This chart bootstraps a [Statsd Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/statsd_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.19+ with Beta APIs enabled
- Helm 3+

## Usage

The chart is distributed as an [OCI Artifact](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/registries/) as well as via a traditional [Helm Repository](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/chart_repository/).

- OCI Artifact: `oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter`
- Helm Repository: `https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts` with chart `prometheus-statsd-exporter`

The installation instructions use the OCI registry. Refer to the [`helm repo`]([`helm repo`](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/)) command documentation for information on installing charts via the traditional repository.

### Install Chart

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter
```

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

### Uninstall Chart

```console
helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

### Upgrading Chart

```console
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

## Configuring

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
helm show values oci://ghcr.io/prometheus-community/charts/prometheus-statsd-exporter
```

### Statsd Exporter Server

- Use early created ConfigMap with file `statsd.mappingConf` contained in data or specify mapping values in `statsd.mappingConfig`

#### Upgrading an existing Release to a new major version

A major chart version change (like v1.2.3 -> v2.0.0) indicates that there is an incompatible breaking change needing manual actions.

##### 0.x to 1.x

Support for Kubernetes versions older then 1.19 has been removed.
