charts/prometheus-snmp-exporter/README.md, before:

# Prometheus SNMP Exporter

An Prometheus exporter that exposes information gathered from SNMP.

This chart creates a [SNMP Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled

## Add Helm repository

```console
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

_See [`helm repo`](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/) for command documentation._

## Install Chart

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter
```

_See [configuration](#configuration) below._

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

## Uninstall Chart

```console
helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

## Upgrading Chart

```console
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

### To 1.0.0

This version allows multiple Targets to be specified when using ServiceMonitor. When you use ServiceMonitor, please rewrite below:

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  params:
    enabled: true
    conf:
      module:
      - if_mib
      target:
      - 127.0.0.1
```

to this:

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  params:
  - module:
    - if_mib
    name: device1
    target: 127.0.0.1
```

## Configuration

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
# Helm 2
$ helm inspect values prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter

# Helm 3
$ helm show values prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter
```

See [prometheus/snmp_exporter/README.md](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter/) for further information.

### Prometheus Configuration

The snmp exporter needs to be passed the address as a parameter, this can be done with relabelling.

Example config:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'snmp'
    static_configs:
      - targets:
        - 192.168.1.2  # SNMP device.
    metrics_path: /snmp
    params:
      module: [if_mib]
    relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: [__address__]
        target_label: __param_target
      - source_labels: [__param_target]
        target_label: instance
      - target_label: __address__
        replacement: my-service-name:9116  # The SNMP exporter's Service name and port.
```

Example configuration via a ServiceMonitor

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  relabelings:
    - sourceLabels: [__param_target]
      targetLabel: instance
  params:
    - module:
        - fortigate_snmp
      name: device1
      target: 192.168.1.2 # SNMP device
```

Commit message:

Update README.md for breaking changes
Show whats happening with the new format changes

Signed-off-by: tuctboh <github@t-b-o-h.net>

charts/prometheus-snmp-exporter/README.md, after:

# Prometheus SNMP Exporter

An Prometheus exporter that exposes information gathered from SNMP.

This chart creates a [SNMP Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled

## Add Helm repository

```console
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

_See [`helm repo`](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/) for command documentation._

## Install Chart

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter
```

_See [configuration](#configuration) below._

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

## Uninstall Chart

```console
helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

## Upgrading Chart

```console
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

### To 2.0.0

BREAKING CHANGES:

This version of the exporter introduces a new configuration file format. This new format separates the walk and metric mappings from the connection and authentication settings. This allows for easier configuration of different auth params without having to duplicate the full walk and metric mapping.

See [auth-split-migration.md](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter/blob/main/auth-split-migration.md) for more details.

### To 1.0.0

This version allows multiple Targets to be specified when using ServiceMonitor. When you use ServiceMonitor, please rewrite below:

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  params:
    enabled: true
    conf:
      module:
      - if_mib
      target:
      - 127.0.0.1
```

to this:

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  params:
  - module:
    - if_mib
    name: device1
    target: 127.0.0.1
```

## Configuration

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
# Helm 2
$ helm inspect values prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter

# Helm 3
$ helm show values prometheus-community/prometheus-snmp-exporter
```

See [prometheus/snmp_exporter/README.md](https://github.com/prometheus/snmp_exporter/) for further information.

### Prometheus Configuration

The snmp exporter needs to be passed the address as a parameter, this can be done with relabelling.

Example config:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'snmp'
    static_configs:
      - targets:
        - 192.168.1.2  # SNMP device.
    metrics_path: /snmp
    params:
      module: [if_mib]
    relabel_configs:
      - source_labels: [__address__]
        target_label: __param_target
      - source_labels: [__param_target]
        target_label: instance
      - target_label: __address__
        replacement: my-service-name:9116  # The SNMP exporter's Service name and port.
```

Example configuration via a ServiceMonitor

```yaml
serviceMonitor:
  enabled: true
  relabelings:
    - sourceLabels: [__param_target]
      targetLabel: instance
  params:
    - module:
        - fortigate_snmp
      name: device1
      target: 192.168.1.2 # SNMP device
```
