charts/prometheus-consul-exporter/README.md, before:

# Prometheus Consul Exporter

A Prometheus exporter for [Consul](https://www.consul.io/) metrics.

This chart creates a [Consul Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.8+ with Beta APIs enabled

## Get Repo Info

```console
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

_See [helm repo](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/) for command documentation._

## Install Chart

```console
# Helm 3
$ helm install [RELEASE_NAME] prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter

# Helm 2
$ helm install --name [RELEASE_NAME] prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter
```

_See [configuration](#configuration) below._

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

## Uninstall Chart

```console
# Helm 3
$ helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]

# Helm 2
# helm delete --purge [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

## Upgrading Chart

```console
# Helm 3 or 2
$ helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

## Configuration

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
# Helm 2
$ helm inspect values prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter

# Helm 3
$ helm show values prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter
```

### Consul Server Info

Set `consulServer` to `[MY_CONSUL_HOST]:[MY_CONSUL_PORT]`.

### Flags

Check the [Flags](https://github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter#flags) list and add to the `options` block in your value overrides.

Commit message:

[prometheus-consul-exporter] Increment Helm apiVersion (#2991)
* [prometheus-consul-exporter] Increment Helm apiVersion

* Bump Helm apiVersion from v1 to v2
* Add annotations, sources and type
* Update README on upgrading the chart and prerequisites

Signed-off-by: zeritti <47476160+zeritti@users.noreply.github.com>

* [prometheus-consul-exporter] Correct linting errors

Signed-off-by: zeritti <47476160+zeritti@users.noreply.github.com>

* [prometheus-consul-exporter] Increment major version number

* Set version to 1.0.0
* Update README

Signed-off-by: zeritti <47476160+zeritti@users.noreply.github.com>

* [prometheus-consul-exporter] Disable textlint terminology

Signed-off-by: zeritti <47476160+zeritti@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: zeritti <47476160+zeritti@users.noreply.github.com>

charts/prometheus-consul-exporter/README.md, after:

# Prometheus Consul Exporter

A Prometheus exporter for [Consul](https://www.consul.io/) metrics.

This chart creates a [Consul Exporter](https://github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter) deployment on a [Kubernetes](http://kubernetes.io) cluster using the [Helm](https://helm.sh) package manager.

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes 1.9+ with Beta APIs enabled
- Helm 3

## Get Repository Info

<!-- textlint-disable terminology -->
```console
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
```

_See [helm repo](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_repo/) for command documentation._
<!-- textlint-enable -->

## Install Chart

```console
helm install [RELEASE_NAME] prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter
```

_See [configuration](#configuration) below._

_See [helm install](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/) for command documentation._

## Uninstall Chart

```console
helm uninstall [RELEASE_NAME]
```

This removes all the Kubernetes components associated with the chart and deletes the release.

_See [helm uninstall](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_uninstall/) for command documentation._

## Upgrading Chart

```console
helm upgrade [RELEASE_NAME] [CHART] --install
```

_See [helm upgrade](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_upgrade/) for command documentation._

### From 0.5.x to 1.0.0

Helm `apiVersion` has been increased to `v2` in version 1.0.0. As a result, Helm v3 is required to install the chart. Please, see notes on [migration from Helm v2 to Helm v3](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/v2_v3_migration/).

## Configuration

See [Customizing the Chart Before Installing](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/using_helm/#customizing-the-chart-before-installing). To see all configurable options with detailed comments, visit the chart's [values.yaml](./values.yaml), or run these configuration commands:

```console
helm show values prometheus-community/prometheus-consul-exporter
```

### Consul Server Info

Set `consulServer` to `[MY_CONSUL_HOST]:[MY_CONSUL_PORT]`.

### Flags

Check the [Flags](https://github.com/prometheus/consul_exporter#flags) list and add to the `options` block in your value overrides.
